todo_list.md, before:

# MAXX BURGERS - FULL STACK DEVELOPMENT PLAN

## PROJECT OVERVIEW

- Frontend: React + Redux Toolkit + Tailwind CSS + React Router v7 + Shadcn + Typescript
- Backend: Node.js + Express + MongoDB + Swagger + Typescript
- Auth: JWT (JSON Web Tokens)
- Payments: Stripe
- Monitoring: Sentry
- Analytics: Google Analytics 4
- Testing: Jest (API testing), Playwright (E2E testing)

## DEVELOPMENT APPROACH: BACKEND FIRST ✅

**Why backend first?**

- Establish data models and API contracts early
- Frontend can consume real data from day 1
- Authentication system needs to be solid before frontend integration
- Payment processing requires secure backend implementation

---

## PHASE 1: BACKEND FOUNDATION (Week 1-2)

### 1.1 Project Setup

- [x] Initialize Node.js project with Express
- [x] Set up TypeScript + Swagger configuration - useful link: https://dev.to/yugjadvani/automating-nodejs-documentation-with-swagger-3o0d npm run swagger every time a api changes to create swagger-output.json
- [x] Configure ESLint + Prettier
- [x] Set up environment variables (.env)
- [x] Create basic folder structure:
  ```
  server/
  ├── src/
  │   ├── models/
  │   ├── routes/
  │   ├── middleware/
  │   ├── services/
  │   ├── utils/
  │   └── types/
  ├── tests/
  └── dist/
  ```

### 1.2 Database Setup

- [x] Set up MongoDB Atlas with Typescript - https://www.mongodb.com/resources/products/compatibilities/using-typescript-with-mongodb-tutorial install mongodb, dotenv
- [x] Install Mongoose ODM (Object Data Modeling) https://mongoosejs.com/docs/
- [x] Create database connection module
- [x] Design data schemas:
  - User (email, password hash, profile info)
  - Product (burger details, price, ingredients, images)
  - Category (burger types)
  - Order (user, items, total, status, payment)
  - ~~Cart (temporary storage)~~ → Using client-side Redux cart instead

### 1.3 Core API Endpoints

- [ ] User authentication routes (register, login, logout, refresh)
- [x] Product routes (CRUD operations)
- [x] Category routes
- [x] Order management routes
- [ ] User profile routes

### 1.4 Authentication System

- [ ] Install bcryptjs for password hashing
- [ ] Install jsonwebtoken for JWT handling
- [ ] Create JWT middleware for protected routes
- [ ] Implement refresh token mechanism
- [ ] Add password validation (minimum requirements)
- [ ] Add email validation

### 1.5 Security & Middleware

- [ ] Install helmet for security headers
- [ ] Install cors for cross-origin requests
- [ ] Install express-rate-limit for rate limiting
- [ ] Add input validation with joi or express-validator
- [ ] Add request logging middleware
- [ ] Error handling middleware !!!

### 1.6 Sample data

- [ ] Create sample data for all models
- [ ] Move images to cloudinary

---

## PHASE 2: PAYMENT INTEGRATION (Week 2)

### 2.1 Stripe Setup

- [ ] Create Stripe account and get API keys
- [ ] Install stripe npm package
- [ ] Set up webhook endpoint for payment confirmations
- [ ] Create payment intent endpoint
- [ ] Implement order completion flow
- [ ] Add payment status tracking

### 2.2 Order Management

- [ ] Create order processing logic
- [ ] Add inventory management (if needed)
- [ ] Implement order status updates
- [ ] Add order history functionality

---

## PHASE 3: FRONTEND FOUNDATION (Week 3)

### 3.1 React App Setup

- [ ] Initialize React app with Vite
- [ ] Install and configure Tailwind CSS
- [ ] Set up React Router v7
- [ ] Install Redux Toolkit & React-Redux
- [ ] Configure Redux store structure

### 3.2 Redux Store Architecture

- [ ] Create slices:
  - authSlice (user, token, isLoggedIn)
  - cartSlice (items, total, quantity)
  - productsSlice (burgers, categories, loading)
  - ordersSlice (order history, current order)
- [ ] Set up RTK Query for API calls
- [ ] Configure Redux DevTools

### 3.3 Core Components

- [ ] Header/Navigation with cart icon
- [ ] Footer
- [ ] Loading spinners
- [ ] Error boundaries
- [ ] Toast notifications
- [ ] Modal components

### 3.4 Storybook Setup (Component Library)

- [ ] Install & initialize Storybook (Vite + React + TS): npx storybook@latest init
- [ ] Configure Tailwind + globals in .storybook/preview
- [ ] Add controls, docs, a11y, interactions, viewport addons
- [ ] Create stories for: Button, Header, Card, Form fields, Loading, EmptyState
- [ ] Add dark/light theme toggle in decorators
- [ ] Enable absolute import paths in tsconfig + Storybook config
- [ ] Add Storybook build script ("storybook" / "build-storybook")
- [ ] Integrate MSW (mock service worker) for API-mocking in stories (optional)
- [ ] Visual regression (Chromatic or Storycap + Playwright) (optional)
- [ ] Add CI step to build Storybook (optional)

### 3.5 Authentication Pages

- [ ] Login page (using existing auth/login.tsx)
- [ ] Register page (using existing auth/register.tsx)
- [ ] Password reset functionality
- [ ] Protected route wrapper
- [ ] User profile page

---

## PHASE 4: CORE FEATURES (Week 4)

### 4.1 Product Display

- [ ] Burger catalog page
- [ ] Individual burger detail pages
- [ ] Category filtering
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] Image optimization and lazy loading

### 4.2 Shopping Cart (Client-Side with Redux)

- [ ] Set up Redux cart slice with TypeScript
- [ ] Add to cart functionality (Redux actions)
- [ ] Cart sidebar/page component
- [ ] Quantity adjustment (increment/decrement)
- [ ] Remove items from cart
- [ ] Cart persistence with localStorage
- [ ] Cart total calculations
- [ ] Cart validation before checkout (verify prices server-side)

### 4.3 Checkout Process

- [ ] Checkout page with order summary
- [ ] Delivery/pickup options
- [ ] Stripe payment form integration
- [ ] Order confirmation page
- [ ] Email confirmations (optional)

---

## PHASE 5: PROFESSIONAL FEATURES (Week 5)

### 5.1 Monitoring & Analytics

- [ ] Set up Sentry for error tracking
- [ ] Install Google Analytics 4
- [ ] Add conversion tracking for purchases
- [ ] Set up performance monitoring

### 5.2 SEO & Performance

- [ ] Add meta tags for all pages
- [ ] Implement React Helmet for dynamic SEO
- [ ] Optimize images (WebP format)
- [ ] Add lazy loading
- [ ] Implement code splitting
- [ ] Add sitemap.xml

### 5.3 Testing

- [ ] Backend: Jest + Supertest for API testing
- [ ] Frontend: Vitest + React Testing Library
- [ ] E2E testing with Playwright
- [ ] Test payment flow in Stripe test mode

---

## PHASE 6: DEPLOYMENT & PRODUCTION (Week 6)

### 6.1 Backend Deployment

- [ ] Deploy to Railway, Render, or DigitalOcean
- [ ] Set up MongoDB Atlas (if not already)
- [ ] Configure production environment variables
- [ ] Set up SSL certificates
- [ ] Configure domain and subdomain

### 6.2 Frontend Deployment

- [ ] Deploy to Vercel or Netlify
- [ ] Configure environment variables
- [ ] Set up custom domain
- [ ] Configure redirects and error pages

### 6.3 Production Monitoring

- [ ] Set up uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot - free)
- [ ] Configure Sentry alerts
- [ ] Set up log aggregation
- [ ] Database backup strategy

---

## ADDITIONAL PROFESSIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS

### What You Might Be Missing:

1. **Email Service**: SendGrid or Nodemailer for order confirmations
2. **Image Storage**: Cloudinary for burger images
3. **Admin Panel**: Simple admin interface for managing products
4. **Order Tracking**: Real-time order status updates
5. **Customer Support**: Chat widget (Intercom/Crisp)
6. **Reviews**: Customer rating system
7. **Promotions**: Coupon/discount system
8. **Mobile App**: React Native version (future)

### GUARDRAILS - What Are They?

Guardrails are safety mechanisms that prevent bad things from happening:

**Do you need them?** YES, for a professional site:

- [ ] **Input Validation**: Prevent SQL injection, XSS attacks
- [ ] **Rate Limiting**: Prevent API abuse and DDoS
- [ ] **Authentication Guards**: Protect sensitive routes
- [ ] **Payment Validation**: Verify amounts server-side
- [ ] **Error Boundaries**: Prevent app crashes
- [ ] **Data Sanitization**: Clean user inputs
- [ ] **CORS Configuration**: Control which domains can access your API

### ALERTING - What Is It?

Alerting notifies you when something goes wrong:

**Do you need it?** YES, for business continuity:

- [ ] **Sentry Alerts**: Get notified of application errors
- [ ] **Uptime Monitoring**: Know when your site is down
- [ ] **Performance Alerts**: Slow API responses
- [ ] **Payment Failures**: Failed Stripe transactions
- [ ] **Security Alerts**: Suspicious login attempts

**Simple Alerting Setup:**

- [ ] Sentry email notifications
- [ ] UptimeRobot for downtime alerts
- [ ] Stripe dashboard notifications
- [ ] Google Analytics anomaly detection

---

## RECOMMENDED TECH STACK ADDITIONS

### Analytics (Easiest Solutions):

1. **Google Analytics 4** (Free, comprehensive)
2. **Hotjar** (User behavior, heatmaps)
3. **Stripe Analytics** (Payment insights)

### Essential NPM Packages:

```json
// Backend
"bcryptjs": "^2.4.3",
"jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.2",
"mongoose": "^8.0.0",
"stripe": "^14.0.0",
"helmet": "^7.0.0",
"cors": "^2.8.5",
"express-rate-limit": "^7.0.0",
"joi": "^17.11.0"

// Frontend
"@reduxjs/toolkit": "^2.0.0",
"react-redux": "^9.0.0",
"@stripe/stripe-js": "^2.0.0",
"@stripe/react-stripe-js": "^2.0.0",
"react-hot-toast": "^2.4.1"
```

---

## TIMELINE ESTIMATE: 6 WEEKS

- Week 1-2: Backend + Database + Auth
- Week 3: Frontend setup + Auth integration
- Week 4: Core features (catalog, cart, checkout)
- Week 5: Professional features (monitoring, testing)
- Week 6: Deployment + production setup

## SUCCESS METRICS:

- [ ] User can register/login
- [ ] User can browse burgers
- [ ] User can add items to cart
- [ ] User can complete purchase with Stripe
- [ ] Site is monitored and secure
- [ ] Mobile responsive design
- [ ] Page load times < 3 seconds
- [ ] Use Google Lighthouse extension to check performance and SEO

---

## NEXT STEPS:

1. Start with backend API development
2. Set up MongoDB database
3. Implement authentication system
4. Create basic CRUD operations
5. Move to frontend once backend is stable

Commit message:

add client/src/API.ts, install CORS lib in server

todo_list.md, after:

# MAXX BURGERS - FULL STACK DEVELOPMENT PLAN

## PROJECT OVERVIEW

- Frontend: React + Redux Toolkit + Tailwind CSS + React Router v7 + Shadcn + Typescript
- Backend: Node.js + Express + MongoDB + Swagger + Typescript
- Auth: JWT (JSON Web Tokens)
- Payments: Stripe
- Monitoring: Sentry
- Analytics: Google Analytics 4
- Testing: Jest (API testing), Playwright (E2E testing)

## DEVELOPMENT APPROACH: BACKEND FIRST ✅

**Why backend first?**

- Establish data models and API contracts early
- Frontend can consume real data from day 1
- Authentication system needs to be solid before frontend integration
- Payment processing requires secure backend implementation

---

## PHASE 1: BACKEND FOUNDATION (Week 1-2)

### 1.1 Project Setup

- [x] Initialize Node.js project with Express
- [x] Set up TypeScript + Swagger configuration - useful link: https://dev.to/yugjadvani/automating-nodejs-documentation-with-swagger-3o0d npm run swagger every time a api changes to create swagger-output.json
- [x] Configure ESLint + Prettier
- [x] Set up environment variables (.env)
- [x] Create basic folder structure:
  ```
  server/
  ├── src/
  │   ├── models/
  │   ├── routes/
  │   ├── middleware/
  │   ├── services/
  │   ├── utils/
  │   └── types/
  ├── tests/
  └── dist/
  ```

### 1.2 Database Setup

- [x] Set up MongoDB Atlas with Typescript - https://www.mongodb.com/resources/products/compatibilities/using-typescript-with-mongodb-tutorial install mongodb, dotenv
- [x] Install Mongoose ODM (Object Data Modeling) https://mongoosejs.com/docs/
- [x] Create database connection module
- [x] Design data schemas:
  - User (email, password hash, profile info)
  - Product (burger details, price, ingredients, images)
  - Category (burger types)
  - Order (user, items, total, status, payment)
  - ~~Cart (temporary storage)~~ → Using client-side Redux cart instead

### 1.3 Core API Endpoints

- [ ] User authentication routes (register, login, logout, refresh)
- [x] Product routes (CRUD operations)
- [x] Category routes
- [x] Order management routes
- [ ] User profile routes
- [x] Install CORS and init in app: npm install cors @types/cors

### 1.4 Authentication System

- [ ] Install bcryptjs for password hashing
- [ ] Install jsonwebtoken for JWT handling
- [ ] Create JWT middleware for protected routes
- [ ] Implement refresh token mechanism
- [ ] Add password validation (minimum requirements)
- [ ] Add email validation

### 1.5 Security & Middleware

- [ ] Install helmet for security headers
- [ ] Install cors for cross-origin requests
- [ ] Install express-rate-limit for rate limiting
- [ ] Add input validation with joi or express-validator
- [ ] Add request logging middleware
- [ ] Error handling middleware !!!

### 1.6 Sample data

- [ ] Create sample data for all models
- [ ] Move images to cloudinary

---

## PHASE 2: PAYMENT INTEGRATION (Week 2)

### 2.1 Stripe Setup

- [ ] Create Stripe account and get API keys
- [ ] Install stripe npm package
- [ ] Set up webhook endpoint for payment confirmations
- [ ] Create payment intent endpoint
- [ ] Implement order completion flow
- [ ] Add payment status tracking

### 2.2 Order Management

- [ ] Create order processing logic
- [ ] Add inventory management (if needed)
- [ ] Implement order status updates
- [ ] Add order history functionality

---

## PHASE 3: FRONTEND FOUNDATION (Week 3)

### 3.1 React App Setup

- [ ] Initialize React app with Vite
- [ ] Install and configure Tailwind CSS
- [ ] Set up React Router v7
- [ ] Install Redux Toolkit & React-Redux
- [ ] Configure Redux store structure

### 3.2 Redux Store Architecture

- [ ] Create slices:
  - authSlice (user, token, isLoggedIn)
  - cartSlice (items, total, quantity)
  - productsSlice (burgers, categories, loading)
  - ordersSlice (order history, current order)
- [ ] Set up RTK Query for API calls
- [ ] Configure Redux DevTools

### 3.3 Core Components

- [ ] Header/Navigation with cart icon
- [ ] Footer
- [ ] Loading spinners
- [ ] Error boundaries
- [ ] Toast notifications
- [ ] Modal components

### 3.4 Storybook Setup (Component Library)

- [ ] Install & initialize Storybook (Vite + React + TS): npx storybook@latest init
- [ ] Configure Tailwind + globals in .storybook/preview
- [ ] Add controls, docs, a11y, interactions, viewport addons
- [ ] Create stories for: Button, Header, Card, Form fields, Loading, EmptyState
- [ ] Add dark/light theme toggle in decorators
- [ ] Enable absolute import paths in tsconfig + Storybook config
- [ ] Add Storybook build script ("storybook" / "build-storybook")
- [ ] Integrate MSW (mock service worker) for API-mocking in stories (optional)
- [ ] Visual regression (Chromatic or Storycap + Playwright) (optional)
- [ ] Add CI step to build Storybook (optional)

### 3.5 Authentication Pages

- [ ] Login page (using existing auth/login.tsx)
- [ ] Register page (using existing auth/register.tsx)
- [ ] Password reset functionality
- [ ] Protected route wrapper
- [ ] User profile page

---

## PHASE 4: CORE FEATURES (Week 4)

### 4.1 Product Display

- [ ] Burger catalog page
- [ ] Individual burger detail pages
- [ ] Category filtering
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] Image optimization and lazy loading

### 4.2 Shopping Cart (Client-Side with Redux)

- [ ] Set up Redux cart slice with TypeScript
- [ ] Add to cart functionality (Redux actions)
- [ ] Cart sidebar/page component
- [ ] Quantity adjustment (increment/decrement)
- [ ] Remove items from cart
- [ ] Cart persistence with localStorage
- [ ] Cart total calculations
- [ ] Cart validation before checkout (verify prices server-side)

### 4.3 Checkout Process

- [ ] Checkout page with order summary
- [ ] Delivery/pickup options
- [ ] Stripe payment form integration
- [ ] Order confirmation page
- [ ] Email confirmations (optional)

---

## PHASE 5: PROFESSIONAL FEATURES (Week 5)

### 5.1 Monitoring & Analytics

- [ ] Set up Sentry for error tracking
- [ ] Install Google Analytics 4
- [ ] Add conversion tracking for purchases
- [ ] Set up performance monitoring

### 5.2 SEO & Performance

- [ ] Add meta tags for all pages
- [ ] Implement React Helmet for dynamic SEO
- [ ] Optimize images (WebP format)
- [ ] Add lazy loading
- [ ] Implement code splitting
- [ ] Add sitemap.xml

### 5.3 Testing

- [ ] Backend: Jest + Supertest for API testing
- [ ] Frontend: Vitest + React Testing Library
- [ ] E2E testing with Playwright
- [ ] Test payment flow in Stripe test mode

---

## PHASE 6: DEPLOYMENT & PRODUCTION (Week 6)

### 6.1 Backend Deployment

- [ ] Deploy to Railway, Render, or DigitalOcean
- [ ] Set up MongoDB Atlas (if not already)
- [ ] Configure production environment variables
- [ ] Set up SSL certificates
- [ ] Configure domain and subdomain

### 6.2 Frontend Deployment

- [ ] Deploy to Vercel or Netlify
- [ ] Configure environment variables
- [ ] Set up custom domain
- [ ] Configure redirects and error pages

### 6.3 Production Monitoring

- [ ] Set up uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot - free)
- [ ] Configure Sentry alerts
- [ ] Set up log aggregation
- [ ] Database backup strategy

---

## ADDITIONAL PROFESSIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS

### What You Might Be Missing:

1. **Email Service**: SendGrid or Nodemailer for order confirmations
2. **Image Storage**: Cloudinary for burger images
3. **Admin Panel**: Simple admin interface for managing products
4. **Order Tracking**: Real-time order status updates
5. **Customer Support**: Chat widget (Intercom/Crisp)
6. **Reviews**: Customer rating system
7. **Promotions**: Coupon/discount system
8. **Mobile App**: React Native version (future)

### GUARDRAILS - What Are They?

Guardrails are safety mechanisms that prevent bad things from happening:

**Do you need them?** YES, for a professional site:

- [ ] **Input Validation**: Prevent SQL injection, XSS attacks
- [ ] **Rate Limiting**: Prevent API abuse and DDoS
- [ ] **Authentication Guards**: Protect sensitive routes
- [ ] **Payment Validation**: Verify amounts server-side
- [ ] **Error Boundaries**: Prevent app crashes
- [ ] **Data Sanitization**: Clean user inputs
- [ ] **CORS Configuration**: Control which domains can access your API

### ALERTING - What Is It?

Alerting notifies you when something goes wrong:

**Do you need it?** YES, for business continuity:

- [ ] **Sentry Alerts**: Get notified of application errors
- [ ] **Uptime Monitoring**: Know when your site is down
- [ ] **Performance Alerts**: Slow API responses
- [ ] **Payment Failures**: Failed Stripe transactions
- [ ] **Security Alerts**: Suspicious login attempts

**Simple Alerting Setup:**

- [ ] Sentry email notifications
- [ ] UptimeRobot for downtime alerts
- [ ] Stripe dashboard notifications
- [ ] Google Analytics anomaly detection

---

## RECOMMENDED TECH STACK ADDITIONS

### Analytics (Easiest Solutions):

1. **Google Analytics 4** (Free, comprehensive)
2. **Hotjar** (User behavior, heatmaps)
3. **Stripe Analytics** (Payment insights)

### Essential NPM Packages:

```json
// Backend
"bcryptjs": "^2.4.3",
"jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.2",
"mongoose": "^8.0.0",
"stripe": "^14.0.0",
"helmet": "^7.0.0",
"cors": "^2.8.5",
"express-rate-limit": "^7.0.0",
"joi": "^17.11.0"

// Frontend
"@reduxjs/toolkit": "^2.0.0",
"react-redux": "^9.0.0",
"@stripe/stripe-js": "^2.0.0",
"@stripe/react-stripe-js": "^2.0.0",
"react-hot-toast": "^2.4.1"
```

---

## TIMELINE ESTIMATE: 6 WEEKS

- Week 1-2: Backend + Database + Auth
- Week 3: Frontend setup + Auth integration
- Week 4: Core features (catalog, cart, checkout)
- Week 5: Professional features (monitoring, testing)
- Week 6: Deployment + production setup

## SUCCESS METRICS:

- [ ] User can register/login
- [ ] User can browse burgers
- [ ] User can add items to cart
- [ ] User can complete purchase with Stripe
- [ ] Site is monitored and secure
- [ ] Mobile responsive design
- [ ] Page load times < 3 seconds
- [ ] Use Google Lighthouse extension to check performance and SEO

---

## NEXT STEPS:

1. Start with backend API development
2. Set up MongoDB database
3. Implement authentication system
4. Create basic CRUD operations
5. Move to frontend once backend is stable
